SAS Brown Bag Training - June 15, 2012

Two primary methods to analyze data - in-database and in-memory.

This session covers in-database; in-memory is for HPA and will be covered next week.

SAS Stat not covered here, but if used, you have to be careful about which things can be done
in-memory and which in-database.

They call analytics extracting data and putting it in "analytics warehouse" (SAS Vision).

Build model in memory but users will work in-database.

Requires SAS 9.3 to run Enterprise Miner and Scoring Accelerator.

In-database procs:

FREQ
RANK
REPORT
SORT
SUMMARY/MEANS
TABULATE

These change and need to check SAS doc for latest in-database.    These run on almost every appliance
currently (not just GP).

Only GP and TeraData support high performance analytics.

GreenPlum 4.0 is required to work with current version of SAS for Scoring Accelerator.  
Can't use latest version because procedures are complied and SAS doesn't want to re-compile 
for every release.   There is a patch that allows SA to work with 4.2.1.   
Requires RPQ to get this patch in a later version.

FREQ is good routine to use to check for missing values in database.

Using a row limit option will change whether data is running in-database or not.

SAS Scoring Accelerator is moving computation from the SAS ADW to GreenPlum.

You have to install SAS UDFs in the database before scoring accelerator will work correctly.

Generate model in SAS - generates files score.sas, score.xml, format catalog.   Using SAS Access
for GreenPlum and Model Publishing Macro, these files are installed in GPDB.

To use this with EM, you need to install SA from SASFormatsLibraryForGreenplum.

Need an RPQ on the GP side to install accelgplmfmt-X-X-X_lax.sh (scoring accelerator functions).

On the GP appliance, go to bin directory under this and run CopySASFiles.sh

There has to be a schema named 'saslib' in the database that the functions will be created under.

SAS has to run a proc to enable all these UDFs.

These functions are basically 4 UDFs that provide GP-specific wrappers for SAS functions.

Model generation downloads code to a file system.   You need to see where that code is created
in order to review different models.

There is a sample for how to do this in the SAS documentation.

when published, new set of UDFs are created in public schema of database you are testing with.

Then SQL can be run using these functions to generate the data.


