SAS Brown Bag Training #4 - 06/22/2012

Using HPA.

HPA requires full rack DCA.

Scoring Accelerator runs "in-database".

HPA allows SAS queries to run "in-memory" next to GP.

SAS uses "MPI" to communicate between segement servers.

User connects to master server where SAS is running.

There are not processes running full time on the segment servers.  Processes start only as 
needed when a SAS query is going on, then die.  There are no daemons.

To use HPA, you need a client tier and appliance tier.

On client side, you can use Enterprise Miner (if HPA-enabled).  Have to have BASE SAS and SAS/STAT on
client side - required(minimum).   SAS/Access required to talk to HPA and you need SAS High Performance
Analytics has to be licensed.

On appliance side, you need SAS Embedded Processes, In-Memory Analytics and SAS Grid Manager.

To configure client, configure SAS-Access Interface, and, critically, need ssh key  to support a 
bi-directional secure connection to the appliance.

GP 4.2 required for HPA.

You get an RPM file and a script to copy to the DCA.

Need to create a file with all segment host names called "gridhosts".  Contain name of master and 
segment hosts.

Has to be created before running the self-extracting install.

SAS/GP install instructions are pretty explicit about the install.

There will be a .ssh/authorizedkeys2 file in SAS user client directory.  Will have a key for the client
system and the DCA master.

Check the install with install/bin/mpirun -f <gridhosts path/file name>.  LD_LIBRARY_PATH needs to be
modified to include mpi shared libs in it.

The procs enabled for inmemory need to be prefixed with HP.  Example:  NEURAL needs to be HPNEURAL.

Other SAS procs will run but NOT in parallel.  Only HP<procs> will be parallized.

Files located on Master in /opt/TKGrid.

All the shared libraries in this directory are copied to segment servers on install based on 
GridHosts file created above.

If execution mode says "On Client", this did not run on the database but only on the client.

To run on database, you have to set up some options:  GRIDHOST, GRIDDATASERVER, GRIDINSTALLLOC,
TKSSH_USER, TKSSH_IDENTITY (where is key located)

If run on database, execution mode will say "Distributed alongside GreenPlum".

SAS Grid can be used in either Utility or Parallel computing modes.  Utility manages workload of
grid environment using least utilized node of the grid.  

Parallel executes different parts of the model on the grid nodes to execute model in parallel.

Typical infrastructure is 1 GPDB full rack, and a second rack with:

half rack ISILON
quarter rack SAS Metadata Management Console
quarter rack SAS GRID






